Welcome to the August Robotics Support Handbook. As a member of the support team, it is our responsibility to ensure our Lease Clients have a great experience every time they use their Lionel system.
It is not uncommon for them to run into issues when operating the robots - some of these issues may be caused by human error, or system error. Being on the support team means you are able to identify the issue and provide advice to solve the issue.
One of the most difficult things to do while on support is to identify the root cause of a problem. Often, we are helping clients very far away, without being able to see the equipment. In many situations, remote access is our best tool.
By using remote access, we can effectively “see” what the client sees - at least on their tablet. We can also perform a deeper analysis on certain issues by viewing the logs. However, remote access, and checking logs is not always the solution, and often we need to consider various factors to solve a problem.
1.Identify the problem symptoms: The first step of solving a problem is to identify exactly what the problem is. Often, we will need to ask the client a few questions to get a better understanding, and narrow down the problem area. Some of these questions could include: Is this the first time this issue has occurred? How often does this issue occur? Did the user do anything specific to get the problem to occur? Has the user restarted any equipment?
2.Attempt to match the issue to our list of common issues: Once we have asked a few questions, and narrowed down the issue, we should check our table of common troubleshooting steps. Many client issues of the past have been tracked, evaluated and stored in this table. There is no need to try to re-invent a solution if we already have them. 
3.If the cause of issue is still unknown: If the issue is still not solved, we need to attempt to identify the cause. Sometimes the cause can be separated into hardware or software. But the problems are not always clear. Depending on the problem, we need to determine a possible approach for the solution. Some possible approaches we have are: Asking the user to reboot problematic devices. Using remote access to view the MSP GUI. Using remote access to view the logs of the Map Server/Robot.
If for example, their robot's nozzle is blocked, and they aren't sure what to do - it would be silly to use remote access to assist them. In a situation like this, we need to provide steps that deal with the problem at the source, such as checking the bottle connection, checking that the pump is working, replacing the nozzle etc.
4.Knowing when to escalate a problem: As a member of support - you are not alone. Ideally, each member of support should be capable of solving 95% of issues clients face. There will always be undiscovered issues or new scenarios. It's important to know when to escalate a problem to the broader support team. Escalate a problem when: No solution has been found within ~15 minutes. None of the steps in the troubleshooting table have worked. You have tried alternative solutions, that have not worked.
Things to consider when being on support: Language / tone of our replies: As a company, we have an extremely international team. We speak many different languages - and so do our clients. Most of our clients will be able to communicate in English. Perfect English is not expected from you! For many of us, English is our second or third language. It might be important to make the client aware of this - a quick introductory message will go a long way.
For example: “Hi Mr/Ms ****, Thank you for your message, my name is Leo, I am part of the August Robotics team in Shenzhen. I am here to assist you with your issue. Please note - English is not my first language, but I will try my best to communicate clearly.”
Additionally, we need to ensure we are as respectful as possible to the client. Many of our clients are not technically skilled, so something that may seem simple to us as engineers might be very difficult to understand for them. We need to exercise patience when trying to get information about a problem from the clients.
Quality of our Replies: When we reply to clients about issues they are having, we need to think about the quality of reply we are giving. Short answers may not be a good way of communicating. We should try to provide as much detail as possible - it's sometimes a good idea to pretend the client has never seen the system before. 
August Robotics Ltd. is a global leader in mobile robotics, our mission is to automate dirty, dangerous and dull jobs with user-friendly and affordable robots. August Robotics is founded on 2017 and a first Lionel commercially deployed in Germany on 2019. On 2022, we launched of lease offering – users can set up and operate Lionel without needing August Robotics’ engineers on-site.