This training course contains 7 modules
Module 0: Introducing the components of the Lionel system – Robot, Guiding Station, Reference Beacon, Map Server – and how they work together
Module 1: Map Upload: Walking through how to use the User Portal to upload, process and edit your maps
Module 2: On-Site Preparation: Demonstrating steps to take on-site before the job: charging batteries, opening the Map Server Box, syncing the latest map and preparing the paint
Module 3: Equipment Set-Up: Demonstrating how to set up and calibrate the equipment on-site (the Reference Beacons, Guiding Station and Lionel Robot)
Module 4: Job Supervision: Demonstrating how to use the Map Server to monitor Lionel as it marks your floors
Module 5: Clean Up: Demonstrating the steps you need to take after Lionel completes a job to care for the equipment
Module 6: Proactive Care & Troubleshooting: Demonstrating the proactive maintenance processes you need to perform and the common reactive troubleshooting methods
August Robotics is a global leader in mobile robotics. We aims to using Lionel robot for automatically doing the floor marking
United States: Key customer service hub; Europe: Key customer service hub; Asia: Commercial and robot development centre
2017: August Robotics founded; Mid 2019: First Lionel commercially deployed in Germany; Aug 2022: Lionel made its 100,000th mark; End 2022: Launch of lease offering – users can set up and operate Lionel without needing August Robotics’ engineers on-site
Floor marking refers to the actual marking of the convention center or expo hall floor with tape or pen or another material to show the edges of each booth location.
Each exhibitor’s carpet, booth structure, and signage must be installed within the parameters of the marks.
Previously, each marking had to be applied to the hall floor with adhesive tape by hand. Depending on the effort involved, a manual measurement took around three working days for three people. Today, two Lionel robots can do this job in around ten hours.
Lionel robot makes an average of 80 marks per hour, allowing you to speed up floor marking and the exhibition set-up process
Lionel marks with sub-5mm precision and without the accumulation of errors, resulting in a hassle-free perfect layout
Lionel is purpose-built for exhibition layouts and can mark anything you need – booth corners, numbers, text and other symbols. Once Lionel starts working, it is fully autonomous and requires minimal supervision, freeing you up for other activities
Lionel can be used by anyone – no robotics or engineering experience is required
Lionel is the smarter way to mark exhibition floors
The Lionel system takes your digital floor plan and marks the essential information on the physical floor
Lionel can mark anything, as its spray mechanism has a full range of motion. The most common marks: Booth corners, Booth numbers, Electricity marks, and Rigging points
Guiding Station: A stationary piece of equipment that helps the robot to understand its location in the hall to place marks accurately
The Guiding Station enables Lionel to understand and adjust its location. The Guiding Station is placed in a fixed and known location in the hall
As the Lionel robot moves around the hall, the Guiding Station uses its camera to track beacon on the Lionel and laser to ascertain Lionel’s location
This enables Lionel to understand and adjust its position, and to place marks with high accuracy
For more details of how the Guiding Station find the precise location of Lionel and itself.
To locate the Guiding Station itself, first, the camera on the Guiding Station will rotate in horizontal and vertical to search for the Reference Beacons (blue and green LED), once the camera find the LED light and lock on, the laser measurement unit will start measure the distance. Since the position of Reference Beacon is known, so the position of Guiding Station can be calculated by using Law of cosines.
To locate a Lionel robot, first, the camera on both the Lionel and Guiding Station will search for each other by looking for red and green LED lights, once the camera lock on, the laser measurement unit on the Guiding station will take a distance measurement which can get the x and y coordinates of the Lionel. And the Lionel will also know its theta angle on the map by using the radians of the camera rotation.
Hence, our localisation does NOT depend on technology like GPS or SLAM, it is more like a total guiding station which used a lot in civil engineering.
How does the system work? Determine Reference Points for the hall. Set up the two Reference Beacons. Set up and calibrate the Guiding Station. Set up and calibrate the Lionel robot. Run the job. Open the Map Server
How does the system work on-site? We put down two Reference Points in every hall. The points will typically be close to a prominent feature in the hall (such as a wall or a pillar), and will be physically marked before the job day (e.g. with a nail in the floor)
The Reference Points allow us to “match” the digital plan with the physical environment
On the job day, the user opens the Map Server and its Tablet, selects the show to mark, and follows the instructions on the Tablet to set up the equipment
Then, a Guiding Station is placed in the hall, somewhere where it has line of sight to both Reference Beacons. By measuring its distance to the Reference Beacons, the Guiding Station can determine its position
After the Guiding Station calculated its position, the Reference Beacons are no longer required, and can be turned off
Then, the Lionel robot is set up and placed on the floor, somewhere where it has line of sight to the Guiding Station
By measuring its distance and rotational angle to the Guiding Station, the Lionel robot can determine its position, Lionel can now start marking marks
The Guiding Station acts as a lighthouse for Lionel throughout the job. Lionel communicates with the Guiding Station to ensure its position is accurate before placing each mark
User Portal: A system that the CAD team uses before the day of the job to upload the maps and have them automatically processed for the Lionel system
The Guiding Station has Laser Measurement Unit, Camera Beacon.
Camera Beacon: this contains two parts: camera which can move in vertical and horizontal direction; beacon which is a green and red color LED lights.
Laser Measurement Unit: a distance measurement device using time-of-fly of laser beam.
The Lionel system includes hardware and software components
Hardware: Lionel Robot, Guiding Station, Reference Beacons, Other Equipment, Map Server Box
Lionel Robot: Four-wheeled robot that autonomously moves, localises and makes floor markings in exhibition halls
Reference Beacons: Two beacons (LED light with blue and green color on each of them) placed on the two reference points in the hall during the set-up process to allow the Guiding Station to calculate its position
Other Equipment: Other physical items required on-site, such as batteries, paint preparation materials and maintenance kit
Map Server Box: A physical box that contains a PC (the “brain” of the system), routers, and a tablet with the Map Server Interface; allows on-site operators to set up and run the job
Map Server Interface: A system that the CAD team and on-site operators use to retrieve maps, set up the physical equipment and run the floor marking job. This module will introduce the hardware of the Lionel system. Later modules will walk through how to set up the software and hardware
Lionel is a four-wheeled robot that autonomously moves, localises and makes floor markings in exhibition halls.
Lionel has Camera Beacon, Multiple Sensors, Mobile Base, Mesh Router, Spray Marking Mechanism, Emergency Stop, AI Powered Marking Camera, Maintenance Door, Paint Tank, Battery holder
Camera Beacon: this contains two parts: camera which can move in vertical and horizontal direction; beacon which is a green and red color LED lights.
Multiple Sensors: for intelligent and safe navigation in busy environments, including: LiDAR, sonar, and depth camera;
Mobile Base: with omnidirectional wheels for flexible and agile movement;
Mesh Router: to enable the robot to communicate with the Map Server;
Spray Marking Mechanism: It is just like a 2D printer, the servos can let the spray head move in X and Y directions, so that can make any shape of mark on any type of ground surface;
Emergency Stop: to stop the robot in emergency situations immediately;
AI Powered Marking Camera: to validate the quality of marks, by taking a photo of it just after spray mechanism done its work.
Maintenance Door: to enable reactive troubleshooting and proactive maintenance;
Paint Tank: to store the paint required for marking;
Battery holder: to connect and hold pre-charged batteries;
The Guiding Station, Lionel, and Reference Beacons, all these three devices have beacon, LED lights, attached to their top, but with different color, but only Guiding Station and Lionel have camera on it, Reference Beacon does not have a camera since its position is already known.
The two Reference Beacons enable the Guiding Station to calculate its position. During the set-up process, each Reference Beacon is precisely placed in a pre-defined reference location in the hall
The Guiding Station will calculate its position relative to the Reference Beacons, and thereby calculate its own position in the hall
After the set-up process, the Reference Beacons can be removed, unless additional Guiding Stations need to be added
The Map Server Box: The Map Server is the “brain” of the Lionel system and connects all the components of the system
The Map Server Box refers to a physical black box (shown here)
Tablet with Map Server Interface: that on-site operators use to access the Map Server Interface through a browser
The Map Server Box contains: seven Mesh Routers, Map Server computer, Power switch, Accessory Bag/
Mesh Routers: that are connected to the robot and Guiding Station to establish communication within the system
Map Server: the “brain” that controls the equipment in the system, can be accessed by using the provided tablet with browser
Power switch: to turn on the Map Server box
Accessory Bag: with seven cords and accessories
Lionel Robot Technical Specifications: Weight: 48 kg; Footprint: 82 cm long, 40 cm wide, 113 cm tall; Localisation Accuracy: + / - 5mm accuracy (default accuracy); Battery life: 10 hours (additional batteries can be pre-charged); Marking method: Either permanent or washable paint; Payload: 1L of paint; Working Temperature: Can work between 0 and 40 degrees Celsius; Speed: Maximum speed 1.2 m/s; Battery: 24V voltage, 30Ah capacity; Battery charging time: 5 hours
Guiding Station Technical Specifications: Weight: 21 kg; Footprint: 38 cm long, 38 cm wide, 120 cm tall; Localisation Accuracy: + / - 5mm accuracy (default accuracy); Battery life: 12 hours (additional batteries can be pre-charged); Working Temperature: Can work between 0 and 40 degrees Celsius; Localisation Range: Optimal range within 60m, maximum range 80m; Battery: 24V voltage, 30Ah capacity; Battery charging time: 5 hours
How does this all work together?
MAP UPLOAD: Requires access to internet (office Wi-Fi, Hall Wi-Fi or Mi-Fi) portal.augustrobotics.com
In the office, CAD team/ Technical Manager upload and parse the CAD file. When you parse, you label the layers for Lionel’s software
The Map Server has its own local network and webpage. This connects the Map Server to the tablet and devices
Optional: If you want to monitor the job remotely, keep the Map Server connected to the internet
Lionel system operates independently. On the tablet, operator downloads map from the portal onto the Map Server. Does not require internet: Office Wi-Fi, Hall Wi-Fi or Mi-Fi
We will create a CAD template for each of your halls for the client portal map processing 
After copying the corners, text and symbols from your CAD into the template we have created, you can begin processing the map
First, log into the User Portal, Go to https://portal.augustrobotics.com, Log in using the username and password that August Robotics provided you, Change your password after the first login by clicking the button with your initials on the top-right
You can navigate the User Portal using the buttons on the left
To upload a new map, begin by clicking “Add”, Select “Upload a Map”. From here, you can either: Upload a map, or create a new venue / hall. This only needs to be done once per hall
[Optional] If the hall is not in the system, you need to add a new venue / hall
If you are a floor marking contractor that works across different venues, you may need to add a “New venue” before adding a new hall
If you are a venue, simply select “Existing venue”, select your venue and then add a new hall
Remember: This step is only relevant if the hall is not yet in the system
Start off by specifying the name of the show. Select the show the map is for. If the show is not in the system, input the show details. Select the venue. Select the hall
Upload your map as a DXF file. DXF 2007 is recommended.
Enter the version number. If this is the first version of the map for that show, enter “01”. If you later upload an updated file, enter “02” and so on
The portal will not accept two maps with the same version number
Select a paint colour you plan to use to mark the show. Click “Parse Map”. You have the option to provide your planned marking date. Providing this date allows us to allocate support resources effectively
Confirm the target layout is named ‘Model’. Target Layout is always “Model”
First, we need to confirm which layout (drawing/ view) you want to work on. The default name for this Target Layout is ‘Model’
In most CAD plans, the default name is ‘Model’, but some files may use a different name. Please confirm your active layout is called ‘Model’ before proceeding
If it is not already named ‘Model’, simply right-click on the tab and rename it to ‘Model’. You should already be familiar with how to rename layouts in your CAD software
Identify the layers related to Devices:
In order to convert a CAD file into instructions for the robots, we need to parse the map i.e. allow Lionel to identify the different layers
The first set of layers provide the default positions for all your devices in the hall
The CAD template provided by August Robotics will already have these layers included for you
In the screenshot, we have shown the default layers from CAD template
These layers contain the locations of all the equipment in the hall, so that the Lionel robots and Guiding Stations can locate each other
While specifying these layers is optional, it is highly recommended
Next, identify the layers related to the marks: If you want extra marks in the for long booth edges, tick this box; If a mark is too close to an obstacle, an ‘Extension Mark’ is generated. The distance from the obstacle can be changed
IMPORTANT: These layers must contain all the information that needs to be marked. If it is not here, it will not be marked
Identify what needs to be marked you also have the option to generate additional marks depending on the job needs
Where a mark is made on a tunnel cover, an extra mark can be made next to the tunnel (in case the tunnel cover is moved)
If an air-wall crosses through a booth, an additional mark on either side of the air-wall can be added
Identify the layers related to obstacles and hall features
The obstacle layer will contain all the permanent obstacles in the hall (e.g. walls and pillars)
The information layer can contain any other details that may be useful to orient yourself in the hall (e.g. electrical tunnels)
The last set of layers provide information on the physical features of the hall
The CAD template provided by August Robotics will already have default layers included for you
Parse the map:
After the map has been parsed. Click the “View” or “Edit” icons to review
If you need to add or revise anything, you can Edit the map you just parsed (usually used for small changes), or Upload a new DXF file (usually used if booth layouts have changed), or Re-parse the current DXF file (usually used if you made a mistake in selecting layers)
Refreshing the page. Once the map has finished parsing, the number of marks to be painted will be displayed
ON-SITE PREPARATION:
Before the day of the job, you will need to charge your batteries. The number of batteries you have depends on the number of equipment you have
One Lionel robot requires one 24V battery; One Guiding Station requires one 24V battery OR the External Power Supply connected to a power socket; One pair of Reference Beacons requires two 12V batteries; One Map Server requires one 24V battery OR 110V/220V power supply from a power socket
Charge your large 24V batteries in the large slots (there are 6 slots); Charge your small 12V batteries in the small slots (there are 2 slots)
Make sure to plug the charging cable into the “IN” port
Charge the Tablet separately or use the USB port in the Map Server box to charge the Tablet
Use the charging station to charge all your batteries at onc
Turn on the Tablet and open Settings to connect to the Map Server Wi-Fi. Click the Settings icon. Connect Tablet to Map Server (MSP1-00xx) Wi-Fi
Mark sure you’re connected to MSP1-00xx (serial number of Map Server, xx represent numbers). Network ID: MSP1-00xx Password: augustbase
You can open the Map Server Interface in two ways: Click on the shortcut with the August Robotics logo or Open Firefox and enter the IP address: 192.168.59.99
Log into the Map Server Interface: Log in by entering the Username ‘operator’ and Password ‘aug’
Pull maps from your User Portal to the Map Server: Click ‘Pull map’ to transfer map(s) from your User Portal to your Map Server
[Optional] Later, if you have edited your map(s) on the Map Server (e.g. to add a new moveable obstacle), you can also click ‘Push map’ to transfer the updated map(s) back to your User Portal
Select your maps on the left side and click Pull Now to download them
If you see a red yes under “conflict”, be careful.
This means the map that is currently on your MSP will be replaced with the one currently on the portal
You WILL lose current mark status, flagged marks and any data stored on the map
The list of maps you have pulled from the User Portal to the Map Server will be shown here
Click on the eye icon to view and the pencil icon to edit a map on the Map Server
Try not to edit maps on the Map Server unless necessary. It is easier to edit maps in the User Portal before the job day
Pinch the screen to zoom in on different sections of the map
There are 4 buttons on the bottom right of the map: 1. Zoom in/out and move around the map; 2. Drag or click to select marks and obstacles; 3. Click to see coordinates on the map; 4. Click to reset the map view
Inspect the map: Legend
The multicolored button on the left opens a pop-up window to view/hide and/or highlight specific type of marks and information
Clicking Flagged Marks  highlights marks which may not be perfectly painted on the floor
Clicking Unpainted Marks highlights marks which still need to be painted
Clicking Unreachable Marks highlights marks the system may not be able to reach
Inspect the map: Overview
The marks and obstacles for this map are displayed here
The bottom left panel is the map overview
‘Enabled’ marks are marks that the user has requested Lionel to paint. They may be
‘Painted’ (Lionel has physically painted the mark)
‘Unpainted’ (Lionel has not yet painted the mark)
‘Disabled’ marks are marks that the user has requested Lionel to not paint. They may be 'Painted' (rare), 'Unpainted', ‘Enabled’, and ‘Disabled’ describe the user’s choice. ‘Painted’ and ‘Unpainted’ describe Lionel’s progress
Total marks = Enabled marks + Disabled marks
On the day of the job: following the four step: 1. Preparing the paint for Lionel, 2. Placing Reference Beacons to the pre-defined position, 3. Placing the Guiding Stations, 4. Preparing the Lionel. Finally, starting running the job
Prepare the paint: August Robotics offers a range of washable paint colours: White, Yellow, Blue, Green, Red, Pink, Orange, Purple. Contact August Robotics if you wish to order more paint
Before using, shake the paint bottle WELL to make sure the mixture is even and has no sediment – bad paint leads to bad marks
Simple steps to start running: 1. Turn on Map Server 2. Turn on Tablet and connect Tablet to Map Server Wi-Fi 3. Open the Map Server Interface 4. Connect Map Server to the internet 5. Inspect map/s 6. Follow setup checklist 7. Calibrate Guiding Station/s and Lionel/s 8. Start map 9. Start Lionels
Select the maps from your User Portal that you would like to mar
You can mark multiple shows at the same time, simply select more than one map and click on “Start Job”
If you select multiple maps for a job, the maps must be for the same hall.
Preview job and click Confirm: Here you can quickly inspect the map/s.
Check to see that all booths appear to be in the correct location and nothing seems abnormal. If acceptable, click confirm
The predefined Reference Points tell you where to place the Reference Beacons. The Reference Beacons enable the Guiding Station (once calibrated) to understand its position.
Your August Robotics representative will have pre-defined two Reference Points for the physical hall
The Reference Points allow us to “match” the digital plan with the physical hall
These points will have been physically marked in the hall by August Robotics (e.g. with a nail on the ground)
Place the two Reference Beacon stands over the two Reference Points
For each Reference Beacon stand: Turn on the laser using the red switch. Adjust the position of the stand so the downward laser shines precisely onto the reference point (see photo on previous page).
Level the Reference Beacon by using the black levelling screws to centre the round bubble. Mount the blue and green beacon onto the stand
Adjust the position of the stand again so the laser shines precisely onto the reference point
Repeat the above two steps until the bubble and the laser are both in the correct place
Connect a small 12V battery to the Reference Beacon. Take care not to move the Reference Beacon. Turn off the laser using the red switch
Your August Robotics representative will provide a “Suggested Home Base” for the Guiding Station, a rough area in which you should place the Guiding Station
From its Home Base, the Guiding Station will look for the Reference Beacon so the system can determine the Guiding Station’s precise position
The Home Base is highlighted digitally on the interface (in blue)
Place the Guiding Station in the correct orientation. Match the X-Y sticker on the Guiding Station to X-Y direction on the map
Ensure that all four feet of the Guiding Station are in contact with the ground and that the Guiding Station is stable
For the Guiding Station:
Connect a large 24V battery to the Guiding Station’s power cable
Place a Mesh Router into the holder on the side of the Guiding Station and attach the router power and LAN cable
Turn on the Guiding Station using the red switch. A red light indicates that the Guiding Station is powered on. Make sure the Emergency Stop button is not pressed
Your August Robotics representative will provide a “Suggested Home Base” for the Lionel robot, a rough area in which you should place the robot as its starting position
The Home Base is the rough area the Guiding Station will “look” to find the Lionel robot so the system can determine Lionel’s position
The Home Base is highlighted digitally on the interface (in blue)
Place the physical robot in its Home Base in the hall
Place the Lionel in the correct orientation, ensuring it matches the orientation the Lionel icon is facing in the Map Server Interface
For the Lionel robot:
Open the cover at the bottom of Lionel to reveal a black and red battery cable. Place a large 24V battery inside and connect it to the cable. Close the cover
Place a Mesh Router into the holder on the top of Lionel and attach the router power and LAN cable
Take the Paint Tank containing prepared paint and place it into the compartment on the side of Lionel. Connect the tube on the Paint Tank to the pipe connector in Lionel’s compartment. Ensure the Paint Tank clicks into place. Take care not to damage the fittings.
Loosen the screw on the right side of Lionel’s nozzle. Add some water to the foam cap of the nozzle – this prevents the nozzle from drying out
Press the red switch between Lionel’s wheels to switch on Lionel. A red light means Lionel is powered on.
Press the ‘Preload’ button to pump some paint from the Paint Tank to Lionel’s nozzle. Ensure that the tubes are not compressed. Hold the button until the paint flows out of the nozzle in a steady stream. This means the paint is properly loaded
However, only the Reference Beacons know precisely where they are in the hall
In the rest of the module, you will  Calibrate the Guiding Station – using the Reference Beacons, the Guiding Station will learn precisely where it is in the hall. Then, calibrate the Lionel robot – using the Guiding Station, the robot will learn precisely where it is in the hall, so it is ready to start
The Guiding Station’s states are colour coded on the Map Server: Blue (Uninitialised and Unlocated), Green (Locating or Idle / Running), Red (Error)
The Guiding Station will start at the ‘Uninitialised’ state
After it has been successfully calibrated, the Guiding Station will be in ‘Idle’ state
Uninitialised Guiding Station has not yet self-levelled
Initialised The self inclination test is done
Unlocated Guiding Station does not know its location, select the location on the map
Locating Guiding Station is finding its location in the hall
Idle Guiding Station is ready for the job
Error Try clicking the `Reset` button to repeat the calibration steps
Ensure that all four feet of the Guiding Station are in contact with the ground and that the Guiding Station is stable
Select the Guiding Station by clicking its box on the right panel
Click the ‘Initialise’ button: The initialisation process may take a few minutes – please wait
The location of the Guiding Station icon should now mirror the location of the Guiding Station in the physical hall
Click on the Guiding Station icon – its blue bubble will expand to indicate it has been selected
Then, click the ‘Locate’ button. The Guiding Station will now ‘look’ for the Reference Beacons. This may take a few minutes
Once located, the Guiding Station’s bubble turns green and the Guiding Station’s state becomes ‘Idle’
Click the ‘Lionel Calibration’ button to begin the Lionel calibration process
If there was an error in locating:
Double check that the physical equipment has been placed in the correct areas (Reference Beacons, Guiding Station)
Double check that the Guiding Station has been placed in the correct orientation
To calibrate the Lionel robot, we need to use the Map Server Interface to progress it to an ‘Idle’ state
Select the Lionel robot by clicking its box on the right panel
The location of the Lionel icon should now mirror the location of Lionel in the physical hall
Tap on the Lionel icon – its blue bubble will expand to indicate it has been selected
Click the ‘Ok’ button
If you are setting up multiple Lionel robots, repeat the above steps for the other robots. Then, click the ‘Locate’ button
The Guiding Station will now ‘look’ for the Lionel robot. This may take a few minutes
Once located, a symbol will appear. This shows the actual location, and correct orientation, of the Lionel robot
If there was an error in locating:
Double check that the physical equipment has been placed in the correct areas (Guiding Station, Lionel)
Double check that Lionel has been placed in the correct orientation
You have successfully calibrated Lionel
Once located, Lionel’s bubble turns green and Lionel’s state becomes ‘Idle’
This means you have completed the Lionel calibration process
Remove the Reference Beacons from the hall
Click ‘Ready to operate’
We now need to select a map for each Lionel to run, first tap ‘Start Running’
Select the desired map, and tap ‘OK’
The Lionel state will then change to ‘Running’
Lionel will now start running the job
Job supervision:
After pressing ‘Run Job’, Lionel works independently
If all goes well, you do not need to do anything
This module shows you what to do if errors occur or if you have more advanced needs (e.g. need to add extra robots or Guiding Stations)
This module walks through the three features on the Map Server Interface that allow you to monitor / manage the job in real time
Equipment Status 
Add Equipment
View Flagged Mark
Priority Area Selection (covered in Advanced Operations)
The Lionel robot, even without the assistance of a Guiding Station, has a rough sense of its location. It will move towards the location of a mark and stop when it believes it is there
Then, Lionel will use a camera to find the Guiding Station. The Guiding Station uses a laser to determine Lionel’s precise position
If Lionel is slightly off of the correct position, Lionel will adjust itself
Lionel will then make the mark by spraying paint from its nozzle
Lionel will take the most efficient route to complete all the marks, guided by the Map Server
Move, Stop, Adjust, Mark
Lionel has a range of sensors. Lionel has multiple, independent sensors, resulting in a highly reliable obstacle avoidance and safety system. Level 1: Lidar: 300 degree Lidar (Light detection and ranging) coverage, with 8 metre range; Level 2: Sonar: 7 sonar sensors across the front and side of Lionel; Level 3: Depth Camera: Depth camera to detect some small and low obstacles on the floor
meaning it can autonomously detect and plan around both static and dynamic obstacles
E-stop area = 1 metre
Unexpected object within 1 metre will trigger E-Stop, with braking distance of 0.1 metres
Lidar detection range = 8 metres
Unexpected object within 8 metres will trigger Lionel to replan its path
As a last line of defence, you can physically push the emergency stop button
Use the Map Server on the Tablet to supervise the Job
This shows the progress of the job
Use the plus icon to add new equipment
Use this button to stop all the Lionel robots on the job
Use this pause button to stop a specific Lionel robot
Equipment Status: check the status of the robot(s) and Guiding Station(s)
The Equipment Page on the right panel displays all the Lionel robots and Guiding Stations you have set up
Frequently check and ensure the Lionel robot(s) and Guiding Station(s) are in the correct states
Guiding Stations should be in ‘Idle’ or ‘Running’ states (green bubble on map)
Robot should be in ‘Running’ states (green bubble on map)
Equipment Status: if a piece of equipment is in an ‘Error’ state...
If a piece of equipment is in an ‘Error’ state
Click the ‘Refresh’ icon to view details and follow the instructions to fix the error
If the error persists, restart the piece of equipment by turning the power switch off and back on
If Lionel has run out of paint or requires a change in colour
Click the ‘Pause’ button to stop Lionel
Load the Paint Tank in Lionel’s compartment, repeating the steps in module 4
Confirm the show Lionel should mark with the paint. Click ‘Start Running’
You do not need to re-calibrate Lionel unless you have moved it (which usually will not happen as Lionel’s wheels will lock when it is paused)
One Lionel system consists of one robot and one Guiding Station
You can add additional Guiding Stations
You can add additional robots
This is required for halls that are large and halls with lots of pillars or other obstructions
Lionel always needs to establish line of sight to a Guiding Station to confirm and adjust its position before placing each mark
This enables you increase the speed of marking and complete the job faster
Once you add extra Lionel robots, the Map Server will automatically divide the work between the robots in the most efficient manner
View Mark: You can use this feature to check the quality of your marks
Lionel has a camera to record each mark made and utilises AI to check each mark meets the quality standards
If the AI suspects a mark is bad quality, it will report a flagged mark 
Using the View Mark feature, you can review the flagged marks 
If the mark looks good, you can click Correct
If a mark is not to your liking, you can click Unpaint. If you unpaint the mark, the mark will be recorded as unpainted and reflected as such in the job report
Reminder: You will need to clean the mark and run the job again to paint a new mark
You can also monitor the job remotely on your laptop or your phone
To monitor the job remotely
Ensure the Map Server is connected to the internet using the Hall Wi-Fi, Ethernet connection or a Mi-Fi
Log onto the User Portal and click on the ‘Remote Monitor’ icon
Remember: If you do not need to add extra equipment and encounter no errors, you do not need to do anything during the job
You need to clean: 1. The paint tank and its pipe. 2. Lionel’s spray nozzle. 3. Lionel’s pipes
You need to replace: 1. The spray nozzle’s foam cap
You need to pack up: 1. Lionel. 2. Guiding Station. 3. Reference Beacons. 4. Map Server. 5. and recharge all the batteries
You will need the syringe, cleaning pipes and dredging needles
You can pack down the Reference Beacons as soon as all Guiding Stations have been calibrated
Clean: the paint tank and its pipe
Release the paint tank from Lionel’s compartment by pushing the silver tab
Uncap the lid from the tank, taking care not to drip too much paint
Rinse the tank and the pipe with (ideally warm) water
Deep clean the empty tank: 
Fill the tank with water. Place your hand over the lid to seal it then shake the tank. Drain out the water 
Repeat this a few times
Deep clean the paint tank’s pipe:
Fill the cleaning syringe with water
Take the correct cleaning pipe and connect one end to the syringe and the other end to the paint tank’s pipe
Use the syringe to push water through the pipe. Repeat this a few times
Rinse the filter with water if there is still paint caught in it
Please note: Executing these steps after every job is a condition of warranty
Clean: the spray nozzle
Fill the cleaning syringe with water
Attach the nozzle to the syringe and push water through the nozzle
Dredge the nozzle and rinse with water
Please note: Executing these steps after every job is a condition of warranty
Clean: Lionel’s pipes
Take a clean paint tank, fill it with water and screw on its lid
Insert the tank into Lionel’s compartment and attach the pipe
Press and hold the ‘Preload’ button to allow the water to flush through Lionel’s pipes and out the nozzle. Gently press the pipe walls together to remove any remaining paint residue.
When you see a steady stream of clean water coming out of the nozzle, release the ‘Preload’ button
Release the paint tank from Lionel’s compartment by pushing the silver tab
Push the ‘Preload’ button again to drive air through Lionel’s pipes to push out the remaining water
Please note: Executing these steps after every job is a condition of warranty
Replace: the spray nozzle’s foam cap
Please note: Executing these steps after every job is a condition of warranty
The foam cap exists to prevent Lionel’s spray nozzle from drying out. Replace the foam cap after every job
Loosen the screw on the right side of Lionel’s nozzle
Lift up the nozzle
Take out the old foam cap
Take the cylindrical puncher and a new piece of foam from the maintenance box
Press the puncher hard into the foam to carve out a round piece of foam
Place the new foam cap into the holder
Tighten the screw
After cleaning Lionel, pack up all the equipment and charge the batteries
Use a damp cloth to wipe down Lionel’s outer shell
Take out the battery and charge it
Once the battery is fully charged, cut off the power
Please note: Executing these steps after every job is a condition of warranty
Turn off their downward lasers once they are properly placed
Remove the Reference Beacons from the floor once the Guiding Station has been calibrated
Turn off the small battery. Disconnect it and charge it
Disassemble the beacons from their stand and put them back in the box
Place all cables and accessories back into the box
There are four categories of care and troubleshooting: 1. Proactive Care 2. Proactive Service 3. Basic Troubleshooting 4. Advanced Troubleshooting
Covered in this document:
Steps the user needs to perform to care for the equipment after every job or every month
Advanced steps an August Robotics engineer will perform to care for the equipment after every 6,000 marks or every year
Basic steps the user can try if something is not working well
If, after trying basic troubleshooting, there are still issues, contact your August Robotics representative
Proactive Care for Lionel: Paint System
Check that the tube of the paint tank is not blocked
Check that the nozzle is not blocked by pressing the ‘Preload’ button and painting a test mark
If it is blocked, clean the spray nozzle – follow the instructions in Module 6.
Alternatively, change to a new nozzle (5 nozzles are provided per robot)
Replace the foam cap after every job – follow the instructions in Module 6 
Wet the foam cap before every job
Frequency: Before and after every job
Please note: Executing these steps is a condition of warranty. You must do this in addition to all the steps in the ‘Clean Up’ module
Proactive Care for Lionel: Base
Ensure that each wheel is facing the correct angle – parallel to each other and to the body of the robot
Ensure that each wheel is screwed tightly to the base
Manually move the robot back and forth and side to side to check that no wheels are stuck
Frequency: Once a month
Please note: Executing these steps is a condition of warranty. You must do this in addition to all the steps in the ‘Clean Up’ module
Proactive Care for Guiding Station: General Check-Up
Frequency: Before and after every job
Please note: Executing these steps is a condition of warranty. You must do this in addition to all the steps in the ‘Clean Up’ module
Ensure that none of the Guiding Station’s four feet are loose when lifting the Guiding Station, and that they are steady and firm when standing on the ground
Ensure the bolts on the Guiding Station’s levelling board are fixed tight
Ensure that the camera beacon can rotate freely without any abnormal resistance within its working range
Proactive Care for Reference Beacons: General Check-Up
Please note: Executing these steps is a condition of warranty. You must do this in addition to all the steps in the ‘Clean Up’ module
Ensure the downward pointing laser is working properly. Press the red button to turn it on and off.
If the laser is not working, replace the AAA battery
Ensure that none of the Reference Beacons’ feet are loose when lifting the Reference Beacon, and that they are steady and firm when standing on the ground
Frequency: Before and after every job
Proactive Care for All Batteries
Before connecting any battery to any equipment, ensure there is no observable damage to the battery, including the outlet cable, connectors and the battery shell
Charge all batteries using the charging station the day before the job
Ensure that all batteries are charged and discharged / used once every two months
Frequency:Before and after every job
Please note: Executing these steps is a condition of warranty. You must do this in addition to all the steps in the ‘Clean Up’ module
Issue 1: Mark quality is poor (1/4)
Complete and fully formed
Clear and crisp lines
Good paint coverage
There are two types of issues: 1.Mark quality is inconsistent; 2.Mark quality is good at the start but poor later on
Issue 1: None (2/4)
Mark quality is inconsistent
Potential Root Cause: The spray nozzle is blocked
Suggested Action:
Press and hold the ‘Preload’ button for longer and see if the marks improve
Uninstall the nozzle and wash it clean. Attach the nozzle to the cleaning syringe and push water through the nozzle 
Use a 0.2 to 0.3mm metal needle to dredge the nozzle and rinse with water
Change to a new nozzle
There are bubbles or particles in the paint
Hold the ‘Preload’ button and check if there are bubbles in the pipe system. If so, open the paint tank and check the paint mixture
Stir the paint mixture. If there are bubbles, carefully stir to remove the bubbles
Issue 1: Mark quality is poor (3/4)
Mark quality is inconsistent (continued)
Potential Root Cause: There are old paint clots in the pipe system (If the user does not clean the paint system after each job, the residual paint will dry and block the pipeline)
Suggested Action:
Follow the instructions in the cleaning module to flush water through Lionel’s pipes 
If the above does not work, connect a cleaning syringe to the cleaning pipe. Short circuit Lionel’s pipe system by disconnecting the pipe from the orange pump and connecting it to the cleaning pipe (see pictures). The purpose is to prevent water travelling through the orange pump. If water travels through the pump, the pump will be damaged. Then, use the syringe to push water through the pipes
Things are not properly connected in the pipe system
Check that every connector in the pipe system (from the paint tank to the nozzle) are properly connected
Issue 1: Mark quality is poor (4/4)
Mark quality is good at the start but poor later on
Potential Root Cause: The nozzle does not have a wet foam cap
Suggested Action:
Ensure there is a new foam cap for Lionel’s nozzle before every job 
Ensure you have added water to the foam cap before every job
Issue 2: Right location, wrong mark
Potential Root Cause: The CAD file was not clean and the map was incorrectly parsed in the User Portal
Suggested Action:
Select the mark in the Map Server Interface and check whether the mark shape is correct
If the mark is incorrect, click “Disable” to delete the mark
You can use the Map Server Interface to add a new mark
Lionel marked in the right location but with the wrong shape (e.g. the user wanted a “L” corner but Lionel marked a “T”)
Issue 3: Lionel or Guiding Station unable to connect. The hardware is not connected properly.
Potential Root Cause: Even after connecting a Mesh Router to Lionel / Guiding Station, the Lionel / Station is still in a “not connected” state
Suggested Action:
Ensure the Mesh Router’s internet cable and power cable are properly connected to the Lionel / Guiding Station
The Mesh Router you are using does not match the Map Server
(You cannot use Mesh Routers from different Map Server boxes at the same time)
Ensure the serial number on the Mesh Router is the same as the serial number on the Map Server box
The light on the Mesh Router is red, not green
Use a different Mesh Router from the Map Server box and try again
The Lionel / Guiding Station hardware has not been properly started
Ensure the battery on Lionel / Guiding Station is properly connected
Restart the Lionel / Guiding Station by pressing the red switch and wait two minutes for the equipment to boot up
Issue 4: Guiding Station cannot locate the Reference Beacon. When trying to calibrate the Guiding Station, the Guiding Station fails locate the Reference Beacons
Potential Root Cause: The Guiding Station has not been placed in the correct Home Base
Suggested Action (before restarting calibration):
Ensure you have placed the Guiding Station in the Home Base suggested by August Robotics
If you have placed the Guiding Station in a different place, check that on the Map Server interface, you have indicated you are using a customised Home Base and have moved the Guiding Station icon
The Guiding Station has not been placed in the correct orientation
Ensure you have placed the Guiding Station in the correct orientation based on the sticker
The two Reference Beacons have not been placed on top of the Reference Points
Ensure the two Reference Beacons are directly on top of the Reference Points, and that the downward lasers are aligned and the levelling bubbles centred
One of or both Reference Beacons have not been turned on
Check that the blue and green LED lights on both Beacons are on. If not, swap in a beacon from the inventory
Issue 5: Lionel cannot locate the Guiding Station. When trying to calibrate Lionel, Lionel fails to locate the Guiding Station.
Potential Root Cause: Lionel has not been placed in the correct Home Base
Suggested Action (before restarting calibration)
Ensure you have placed Lionel in the Home Base suggested by August Robotics
If you have placed Lionel in a different place, check that on the Map Server interface, you have indicated you are using a customised Home Base and have moved the Lionel icon
Lionel has not been placed in the correct orientation
Ensure the physical Lionel robot in the hall is facing the same orientation as the Lionel icon on the Map Server Interface
Issue 6: Lionel tries but fails to localise. Lionel moves and continues to localise but does not paint the mark, and eventually skips it. This occurs for a few marks
Potential Root Cause: There is too much light in the environment
Suggested Action (before restarting calibration):
(In rare cases, strong light behind Lionel or the Guiding Station impairs the localisation process)
Reduce the light in the environment (e.g. close the doors / blinds, stand behind the equipment for a few minutes to block the strong light)
Issue 7: Lionel moves and continues to localise but does not paint the mark, and eventually skips it. This occurs for most of or all the marks
Potential Root Cause: malfunction on the sensors
Suggested Action (before restarting calibration):
Restart both the Lionel robot and the Guiding Station by pressing the red switch
Check the Map Server interface for any errors and follow the instructions to resolve
The camera on Lionel or the Guiding Station is blocked (unlikely)
Remove the object blocking the camera
The Map Server Interface will provide error codes for issues and suggested actions
Here is a sample of the most common error codes
The Map Server will alert you of errors and provide suggested actions for each error. If you cannot solve the issue after following the instructions, please record the error code and contact August Robotics
Error Code: 00101; Name: No dynamic power; Cause: E-stop has been pushed or the robot is not powered on; Suggested Action: Release the E-Stop button. Restart the robot if the error persists
Error Code: 00102; Name: E-Stop pushed; Cause: No power to the chassis while the robot is powered on; Suggested Action: Release the E-Stop button
Error Code: 12103; Name: Last mark result not good; Cause: Based on the camera’s auto-check, the quality of the last mark is not good; Suggested Action: Manually check the quality of the last mark
Error Code: 13003; Name: On ERROR; Cause: The node is in an error state due to an issue; Suggested Action: Press ‘Reset’. Restart the robot if the error persists
Error Code: 50201; Name: Board offline; Cause: The PC has issues connecting to the controller board; Suggested Action: Open the yellow cover of the robot and check that the USB connectors are plugged in
If you need help, you can speak to our Global Support team
Go to the ‘Help’ section. Click the talk icon
Scan the QR code using your phone
You will be able to speak to an August Robotics  representative 
Alternatively, email us at support@augustrobotics.com
Advanced operations:
Tailor your operations to best suit your specific floor marking needs and workflows. You have the ability to adjust several key settings:
Path Algorithm: Choose between optimized path algorithm or Snake Path to determine how Lionel will navigate between marks
Mark Setting: Adjust a variety of mark settings allowing you to customize the mark-out, including mark size, line type, mark offset and more
Speed: Adjust Lionel's travel speed, which impacts the accuracy of marking placement - higher speeds reduce accuracy while lower speeds increase precision
Priority Area: Define the area you would like Lionel to mark first
Adjust the job settings:
The Priority Area feature allows you to designate specific marking locations as high importance. When setting up a job, draw priority areas and Lionel will then plan its path to first complete all markings within the priority areas before moving to other locations.
This provides control to ensure critical areas are always marked first while optimizing overall efficiency. Priority area selection gives precise workflow management tailored to your event needs.
Before running the job, go to the Settings page to:
Select whether you would like to use Lionel’s optimized path or the Snake Path which allows you to move in a horizontal and vertical path
Select the line type (single or double), mark size, text type and offset
Select the speed by adjusting the accuracy tolerance
The highest accuracy will be the slowest and vice versa
Priority Area: Mark your highest priority area first
Advanced operations:
To add a priority area, tap the "Priority Area" icon in the job settings menu
Press “add” icon and a rectangle will appear - drag it to place over the desired area on the floor plan
Use the multi select tool to draw the priority area on the map
Tap outside the rectangle to save the priority area location and size
You can add up to 3 separate priority areas per job
To edit a priority area, tap the edit icon then drag or resize as needed
To remove a priority area, tap the Delete icon
After you have defined the priority area, pause and then restart any active robots. The robots will then be assigned to the priority area